[Walt]
Thanks for coming, everybody.
I really appreciate your time.
So, what did you think
of the book?
"Of Mice and Men,"
it's Nobel Prize winner
John Steinbeck's
classic American novel.
It was published in 1937
to wide critical acclaim.
Thank you, Monte.
But I was hoping
to get people's, uh,
personal reactions
to the book, so...
[Shelby]
I hated it.
It was too sad,
and everybody was so mean.
Okay, um...
[clears throat]
Zachary, how about you?
Uh...
Uh, sorry, I'm a slow reader,
so I didn't finish.
[door opens]
-[Ruby] Hey.
-[Ferg] Hey.
[door closes]
-Ru by.
-[Ruby] Hm?
What's Cady doing here?
-Why don't you ask her yourself?
-Hey. Shh.
I'm helping
with the deputy search.
-[Ferg] Oh, yeah?
-Yeah.
My dad hired me
to do some background checks
on the people he's interviewing
in there.
Are they in there right now?
[clears throat] Vic.
-They all in there right now?
-Yeah, all eight of them.
Did you meet them yet?
[groans]
Vic.
Did you meet them yet?
I mean, did they seem all right?
It doesn't really matter
what I think, you know?
Walt's gonna hire
whoever he wants anyway,
probably someone
that doesn't threaten him.
lam hungry.
I'm gonna go to the Busy Bee
and get some food.
Anyone else want anything?
[Ruby]
Mnh-mnh. Thanks.
Let's focus
on the end of the book,
where George shoots Lennie.
Spoiler alert for Zachary, huh?
Well, I'll say the big maroon
had it coming.
By the time I got to the end,
l was so sick
of John Malkovich's voice
that l was actually rooting
for him to get shot.
[clears throat]
What?
John Malkovich played
the character in the movie.
We're talking about the book,
so...
[scoffs]
Of course.
Okay, uh... as a deputy,
how would you handle this
George/Lennie situation?
Well, at the academy,
l was trained
to take cover
at a safe distance.
Ideally, l'd create a barrier
between myself and the shooter.
I would command him to drop
his weapon.
[knock on door]
Walt, sorry,
we've got a situation.
[Walt]
Excuse me.
There's been a shooting
at the home
of Brandi and Greg Collette.
[Ferg]
The Collettes?
Aren't they the military family
that you and Vic
got called in on a while back?
Yeah, Brandi Collette had a PTSD
episode, fired a weapon at us.
Thankfully, Greg had it loaded
with blanks, so...
Not this time.
Greg's been shot.
-By Brandi?
-I don't know.
Actually, Ferg, you stay here.
Tell the applicants
I'm sorry to out things short.
I'll see them
at the shooting range.
How is he?
Bullet passed underneath
his left clavicle.
He's lost a lot of blood,
but all things considered,
he's a lucky guy.
Where's his wife, Brandi?
Didn't know he had a wife.
-Sheriff, we got to go.
-l'm coming with you.
[monitor beeping]
[siren wailing]
[radio chatter]
Greg, did Brandi do this?
No, she didn't.
Okay, if it wasn't Brandi,
who was it?
Some guy kicked in my door
while I was sleeping.
Did you get a look at him?
Sort of. Uh...
He had a, um -- a hoodie on.
A red bandana covered his face.
White guy, sounded young,
maybe drugged out.
What did he want?
I don't know, okay?
I was gonna let him take
whatever he was looking for
just so he would leave.
And then he found Brandi's
engagement ring, and...
couldn't have that.
So I tried to grab it,
and he pulled out a gun.
I didn't care.
| just -- I went after it.
Then he shot me, and then he
ran away with the ring.
So, where was Brandi
during all this?
She okay?
She's dead, Sheriff.
She killed herself
two months ago.
I had no idea.
I'm sorry.
You, uh...
Can you describe
that engagement ring for me?
Green agate, set in silver.
Brandi found the stone
while we were camping
near Delaney Rim.
[exhales sharply]
It's got her name.
It's engraved on the inside.
I'm gonna find
that ring for you, Greg...
and whoever did this.
Sheriff, I think
you're gonna want to hear this.
[Vic]
A second robbery?
[Ruby]
Yeah, at the TaII-T Warehouse
and another gunshot victim.
Hand me that mike.
Vic, where are you?
[siren wailing]
[tires screech]
Have the doctor call me
as soon as he's out of surgery.
[siren beeps, wails]
[siren wailing]
Who called this one in?
The victim, a security guard
named Lee McKinnon.
Sheriff's department!
[Lee]
I'm over here!
They got me in the leg.
They? How many?
Three, I think, maybe four.
They're gone now.
l was going around
checking temps,
and that's when
I heard something.
And I came around the corner
here, and I saw them.
[Walt]
What did they look like?
They were all in black,
ski masks, looked professional.
Sol pulled my sidearm,
and before I knew it,
we were exchanging shots.
[Vic]
Did you hit any of them?
I sure as hell would hope so.
They were all right there.
They were taking boxes
off our Casper shipment.
[Walt]
These all pharmaceuticals?
Yeah.
If you see any painkillers,
you can grab me some.
Paramedics are on their way.
-[Lee] Aah!
-[Walt] How's that leg looking?
You stitch that yourself?
Aah.
Uh, no, one of them did it.
[inhales sharply]
[shudders]
[siren wails]
Two armed robberies in one day?
They got to be connected.
-[Walt] Maybe.
Lee McKinnon shot those robbers
at close range.
Call the hospitals
and the local clinics.
See if any gunshot victims
have shown up.
Have Ruby call every pawnshop
in the area.
See if anyone brought in
a green agate engagement ring
set in silver.
You looking to propose
to someone?
It was, uh,
Brandi Collette's ring.
Greg got shot trying to stop
someone stealing it, so...
Green agate must be worth
a lot more than I suspected.
Brandi killed herself
two months ago.
Shit. Okay.
I'll call Ruby from the road.
Ferg, I want you to thoroughly
process these crime scenes,
this place
and the Collette home.
Tell me the differences
and the similarities.
That should tell us if these
two robberies are connected.
Ferg.
Call Cady for me.
On it.
-Why?
-I need a ride.
Yeah, that's right.
ls Greg Collette out of surgery?
Anybody there to be with him
when he comes 'round?
When are the visiting hours?
Okay, thanks.
[beep]
So, uh...
You dig up anything
on these candidates
I ought to know about?
Dad, do you feel like
maybe you're rushing
this a little?
You've been through a lot.
Thanks, but I'm good.
Now, what have you found?
Well, two of your applicants
have minor criminal records,
and one of them
has a medical history
that's a little disconcerting.
Okay.
Now, I hope you never need to
use your weapon on this job.
But if you do,
I hope you don't miss.
Treat this like the real thing.
All right.
Ready.
Aim.
Fire.
Not bad, Theo.
Thanks, Sheriff.
Monte, | get the feeling
you may have done this before.
Yes, sir.
Something wrong, Zachary?
You said to treat this
like the real thing, right?
Well, in reality,
at this distance,
that bear's no threat to me,
so I prefer not to shoot it.
Actually, that's not a bear.
That's an escaped killer
in a bear suit.
He's got an AK-47
aimed straight at you.
[shell clinks]
Nice shooting.
[Vic]
Walt.
So, if Lee McKinnon did hit
one of those warehouse robbers,
they didn't go to a hospital
or clinic.
Nobody's been admitted
with a gunshot wound
except for McKinnon
and Greg Collette.
What about Brandi's ring?
Ruby's still making calls,
but I just got off
the phone with Ferg.
He said 12 boxes
of pharmaceuticals
were stolen from the warehouse,
all from the same
Casper shipment.
Zoloft, Children's Advil,
and pseudo-ephedrine.
-Pseudoephedrine.
-[Vic] Pseudoephedrine.
Pseudoephedrine?
Meth cooks use it.
So I've been thinking,
home invasion, stolen pills,
ring a bell?
-Yeah. U nfortunately.
-Yeah.
Cady, uh, tell the candidates
that didn't check out
they didn't make the cut,
except for the medical case.
I'm not quite ready
to cut him loose yet.
Okay.
[hip-hop music playing]
I'll do the talking.
You head inside
and look for the missing drugs
and Brandi's ring.
[Vic] Let's hope for their sakes
we only find drugs.
-Boys.
-[music stops]
Yo, bae, that's trespassing
without a warrant.
You're on probation.
We don't need a warrant.
You still peddling stolen drugs
these days?
-You mean magazines?
-No!
-Come on!
-I don't.
Like you said,
we're on probation.
Selling drugs would wreck
that shit. So we're clean.
Who's taken over
your drug trade?
No one.
You've completely cleaned up
Absaroka County, Sheriff.
And yet someone just robbed
a warehouse at gunpoint,
stole entire cases
of pseudoephedrine, Zoloft,
and Children's Advil.
And someone ripped offjewelry
from a grieving widower
after shooting him.
I'm thinking the two of you
are about stupid enough
to do both.
Look what I just found
under one of the couch cushions.
[chuckles]
Well, that's a violation
of your probation,
which mean I'm calling
your probation officer right now
unless I believe
every single word
that comes out of your mouths.
We're not lying.
Our proby's a hard-ass.
We wouldn't risk
peddling Z-Ioft.
What about the pseudoephedrine?
There's no money is pseudo,
not unless you cook
that shit up.
And what if you can?
[sighs]
You can flip a package of pseudo
for three grams of meth,
maybe sell it for 100 bucks
to some dumb-ass
casino tourists.
But we don't know how to cook
that redneck shit.
No.
And, Sheriff?
That's actually my nana's gun.
[Walt]
Your nana's gun?
You tell your nana to come down
to the station and pick it up.
So, those idiots are right
about meth's street --
-Hey.
-...street value.
Each one of those cases
of pseudoephedrine
could be worth
tens of thousands of dollars.
What did you find
at the crime scenes?
Found some slugs
at the warehouse
and at Greg Collette's home.
I figure
we should run ballistics
on all of them.
Even though the robbery
at the Collette home
looks like a random
smash-and-grab,
I decided to make some calls
on Greg Collette anyway,
see if he has any enemies
or any recent run-ins.
Is that why you
brought Travis in?
Uh... no.
Uh... he brought himself in.
Said he wanted to talk
to you in private.
I have no idea what about.
Anyway, Greg Collette
did have a big blowup
at the VA. clinic in Sheridan
directed at a psychiatrist --
Dr. Donna Sue Monaghan.
Nice work.
Travis.
Uh... hi.
-What are you doing here?
-I'm honored to apply
for the job of deputy, sir.
I-I know me and this department
may have gotten off
on the wrong foot,
but I really do believe
that I'd make
a strong candidate.
Aside from pulling a gun
on one of my deputies
and later helping him kidnap
and drug a Cheyenne man.
Well, to be fair,
I did come clean on both
of those errors in judgment.
So I do have honesty
going for me.
Also, I've, uh, attached
this article.
It says that a lot of cops
would have become criminals
if they hadn't turned
to law enforcement.
So, you're saying
if I don't hire you,
you're gonna commit more crimes.
[laughs]
Not any felonies.
As you can see, I, uh --
I've never done
any real jail time,
and I've never been convicted
of anything
other than the misdemeanor.
You actually stapled
your rap sheet to your résumé?
My greatest weakness happens
to be my greatest strength.
I know where the bad guys are.
I know how they think,
and I'm a quick draw.
[chuckles]
[pen clicks]
Uh...
I'm in the middle
of an investigation, so...
-All right.
-I'm gonna drive to Sheridan,
talk to that psychiatrist
that Greg Collette
had the run-in with.
Uh, I want you to see
if anyone's buying or stealing
the other ingredients you need
to cook meth in bulk.
Okay.
Well, I think that went better
than expected.
[indistinct conversations]
[door closes]
[man]
Come on.
Thanks, but no thanks.
Sheriff Longmire.
Yeah.
Dr. Monaghan,
let me help you with that.
[Donna]
Oh, thank you.
-What happened?
-[sighs]
Well, it was either a temper
tantrum or a breakthrough.
It's hard to tell sometimes.
And the name is Donna.
Donna. Right.
Yeah.
Well, I do have another patient
in about five minutes, so...
Of course.
I'll get right to it.
Do you know a Durant man
named Greg Collette?
Yes, he reached out to me
a few months ago
about his wife, Brandi.
She was, uh...
She was having some
pretty terrible flashbacks
after coming home from Iraq.
Yeah. Yeah, I experienced one
of them firsthand, so...
Well, then you know that she
was in need of immediate
psychiatric care.
But, unfortunately,
like too many veterans,
she wouldn't come in here
for treatment.
So at Greg's request,
I took the mobile unit
down to Durant to see her,
but she refused evaluation,
so...
How did Greg react to that?
Well, he was thankful
for my efforts.
[chuckles]
I'm sorry.
Why are you asking me all these
questions about Greg Collette?
Because someone broke into his
home this morning and shot him.
Well, is he okay?
I hope so.
Anyway, I understand
that you and Greg
had a bit of a confrontation.
Well, I -- Yes.
[stammers]
It was about three months ago.
He, uh --
He drove down here and demanded
that I give him some
anti-depressants for Brandi.
What did you say?
I said the only thing
I could say -- no.
Without an evaluation,
l-l didn't know
if Brandi was suffering
from PTSD
or a traumatic brain injury
or both.
You know,
there was no way of knowing
what kind of medication
to give her, so...
And did that make Greg angry?
Yes, it made him very livid.
He, uh, told me that if I
didn't give him the pills
that, um, Brandi
would kill herself.
But there was really nothing
that I could do.
At that point,
my hands were tied, so...
Well, Greg was right
about Brandi, you know?
She did kill herself.
Do you actually think
that I don't know that, Sheriff?
Do you imagine that that doesn't
keep me awake at night?
Did you know that 22 veterans
kill themselves every day?
You know, I had no idea
when I took this job
that it was gonna be
so impossible
for me to give these people
the kind of help that they need.
A soldier does not hesitate
to get the shrapnel
removed from his leg.
But if it's the brain
that's injured,
you can't get them
to set foot in here.
They think that it makes them
weak or something.
And just...
So what do they do?
They -- They suffer.
And they self-medicate.
And sometimes,
like Brandi Collette,
they kill themselves.
And if they actually do
work up the courage
to come in here, well,
then they find
that we are so underfunded
and that the red tape
is so damn thick,
it's all just starting to feel
like some, you know,
sadistic joke, but...
I'm sorry. Excuse me.
It's okay. It's okay.
I've got it.
I'm sorry.
[sighs]
It's uh...
It's been a long week.
So...
[clears throat]
I really do have
a lot more patients,
so if you don't have
any more questions...
Where were you this morning
just after dawn?
I was on the road
back from Cumberland County
in the mobile unit.
-Why?
-I'm just trying
to piece together
all the information that I can.
-All right.
-Thank you.
[Donna]
Of course.
Deputy Ferguson here
has examined two crime scenes,
one victim
at the Collette home invasion,
one at the Tall-T Warehouse
robbery. Ferg?
All right, Greg Collette
was shot with a .38
by a single robber in his home.
Later that same morning,
Lee McKinnon
was shot with a 9mm in his leg
while confronting a group
of three to four
professional-looking thieves.
Now, McKinnon returned fire
with his .38,
leaving these bullet holes
in the warehouse boxes.
So, you think
these crimes are related?
They got to be related.
This is small-town Wyoming,
right?
What are the odds
that there are two heist crews
working out here?
Wait, you're saying
that these perps
completely altered their M.O.s?
Why would they suddenly change
things up between crimes?
Maybe they want
to throw us off their scent.
[Walt]
Zachary, what do you think?
I think these two .38 slugs
are maybe from the same gun.
Both got six lands and grooves
and a left twist.
[Premo]
What does that mean?
That means that Zachary noticed
the same thing
as Deputy Ferguson.
We're doing some further
ballistic tests,
but there's a good chance
that Lee McKinnon's gun
was used at the
Collette home invasion, so...
And did you recover
McKinnon's gun?
No. McKinnon told us the robbers
took it after he was shot.
But Collette was shot first.
How would he be shot
with the security guard's gun?
[Travis]
Easy. The guard was in on it.
See, the security guard,
he rips off
this Collette fellow first,
and then he goes to work
his shift,
and then he stages
a fake robbery
to make it look like
it's a crime spree.
I mean, he's a security guard,
right? I hate those guys.
Fake wannabe rent-a-cops.
What are you doing here?
Just winning you over.
I mean, you never said no
yesterday.
Okay, then. No.
Come on, you got to
at least give me a chance.
I don't.
Okay.
So, uh, there's another way
of, uh, thinking about this.
Maybe the warehouse
was robbed first
before the Collette
home invasion.
Warehouse thieves shoot
Lee McKinnon,
steal his gun,
hit the Collette house.
Well, then why did the 911 calls
come in a different order?
If this security guard McKinnon
really is an inside man,
after the warehouse robbery,
he lets his cohorts shoot him
in the leg.
Then he would have waited
to call 911
to let his crew get away.
Meanwhile, they use
Lee McKinnon's gun
in another robbery
in another part of town.
Didn't Trey and Jelly
have an inside partner
in their prescription-drug ring?
Yes, they did.
Paid off a pharmacist
to give them the names of people
with prescriptions.
All four cases
of stolen pseudoephedrine
showed up in the Dumpster
behind Durant Pharmacy
right after you and I
questioned Jelly and Trey.
That's got to be enough
for an arrest.
No. Everything we have
is still circumstantial.
Unless one of our shooting
victims can give us an ID.
Greg.
Sheriff.
Are they taking half-decent care
of you in here?
Uh, no complaints so far,
you know.
Uh... [clears throat]
Marc, this is
Sheriff Walt Longmire,
who I was telling you about.
Sheriff, this is my friend
Sergeant Marc Van Zandt.
Actually, it's
retired Sergeant Van Zandt.
It's nice to meet you, Sheriff.
Greg tells me you're
hunting down the asshole
that shot him
and stole Brandi's ring.
Well, I'm certainly working
on it.
Did you know Brandi?
[Marc]
Yes, sir. Very well.
If it was anyone
other than Brandi
driving our supply truck
through Basra,
I don't think I'd be here.
So when Greg called me
and told me about the robbery,
I drove up from Fort Collins
to make sure
they were taking care of him.
No.
We're doing everything we can,
so, uh...
I got a couple of suspects
I think might be involved.
Greg, if you feel up to it,
you want to take a look
at their mug shots?
Yeah, sure, let's...
Here you go.
[clears throat]
Only a mother
could love them, huh?
[Greg]
[chuckles] Yeah. Yeah.
You recognize either of them?
I don't know.
Like I said, I was sleeping
when they busted in.
They had their faces covered.
I wish I could, but sorry.
No, no, makes sense.
If you could hear
the robber's voice,
you think that
may make things easier?
-It might, right?
-Yeah.
Okay.
Hey, who you taking me to see?
It's a guy named Greg Collette.
He was also shot during
a robbery yesterday.
[Walt] Mr. McKinnon,
thanks forjoining us.
I was hoping
that you and Mr. Collette here
could go through
some of the details
of your assailants with us.
That way, we might be able
to piece together a description.
Do you recognize
either of these two men?
You know, it was dark,
and the fellas
kept their masks on.
I don't think
I could really recognize
any of the people involved.
Not even the one who sewed up
your gunshot wound?
How long did it take for you
to call 911 after you got shot?
It's pretty hard to pin down.
Um...
You know, I think I blacked out
in there somewhere.
I don't even remember
being sewn up.
[Marc]
Fog of war.
Excuse me?
Well, in a crisis, our brains
can only handle so much
information.
Our memory of the details
gets all fogged up.
I saw it happen
all the time in Iraq.
There was something weird going
on in there, wasn't there?
Lee McKinnon
seemed awfully nervous
around Sergeant Van Zandt.
[Ferg]
Do you think he was in on it?
[Wait]
I don't know.
McKinnon's injury isn't severe.
When's he scheduled
to be released?
[Ferg]
Tomorrow.
[Walt]
I got a job for you.
[rock music playing]
Okay, so, it had nothing to do
with his physical health?
Okay.
Okay, thank you so much
for your help.
Big crowd.
Casino overflow.
Well, thank you
for covering for me.
No problem.
Something come up?
Just a friend in need.
Has Malachi put you on retainer?
Yeah, he offered me six figures.
I turned him down, of course,
so that I could do
some background checks
on my dad's deputy applicants.
Is he one of the candidates?
Yeah.
Why? You know him?
I have encountered
Theo Pemberton several times,
and each could be described
as "harrowing."
Okay, good to know.
Thank you.
Your shirt's ripped.
So it is.
I should go change.
U Love don't satisfy me J‘J‘
J'J' 'Cause I'm leaving
with a smile on my face J‘J‘
N You know I ain't that easy J‘J‘
J‘J‘ Sometimes it's just so hard J‘J‘
J‘J‘ I'm just looking for something
to please me If
N You know I want it J‘J‘
[ringing]
[woman]
Hello? Hello?
Anyone there?
Hello?
[scoffs]
J‘J‘ Some good loving with me J‘J‘
J‘J‘ Some good loving J‘J‘
J‘J‘ Back-door screen is slamming J‘J‘
[Vic]
Hmm.
So, I take it
round two with Walt
didn't go as well as expected?
You know, I really don't need
any shit right now.
No shit. Just beer.
Did you really think
he was gonna hire you, though?
I thought he'd give me a chance.
-You have a record, Travis.
-Misdemeanors.
Dumb mistakes. Or maybe you
don't have any of those.
You know, I may not come
from money like Branch did.
But I'll tell you one thing --
I'm a much better person
But would you have made
a better deputy?
You know, me and Branch,
we played football ever since
we were little kids,
and he was always
the starting QB.
And me,
I was just a blocking back.
But when we graduated
from high school,
guess who went on
to play Division I football.
It sure as hell
wasn't Branch Connally.
And why's that?
Because I played harder
than he did
and because I cared more
about helping my team
than padding my own stats.
You know, that's --
that's the thing
that pisses me off
about this the most.
It's that I can accept going out
there on the field and losing.
What I can't accept is not even
being given a goddamn chance.
J‘J‘ Don't let the sweet
still love me J‘J‘
J‘J‘ Just got to try again J‘J‘
If Next time, nothing
will stop me J‘J‘
N You know you want it J‘J‘
[Vic] Any word
on Brandi Collette's ring?
Not yet.
God help me if I find whoever
stole it.
So, I've been thinking about
this warehouse robbery.
Maybe the pseudoephedrine
wasn't actually the target.
You think they were after
the Zoloft?
Yeah, well,
I Googled it last night.
Zoloft is prescribed a lot
for people with PTSD.
If somebody knew about
Brandi's Collette's condition,
they might have assumed
that she was on Zoloft
while she was alive.
And a cabinet full of pills
after she wasn't, so...
Right.
Yo, Sheriff, your narc sucks.
You guys stop by to pick up
your pseudo?
You guys couldn't break us,
so you sent your undercover pig
to try and peddle off
some baggies of Z-loft on us
at like half-price.
I didn't send anybody
to do that.
Well, Dwight Brisco sure as shit
looked and acted like a cop.
We've already sent this
asshole's photo
to everyone that we know.
So Mr. 22 Jump Street's act
is totally defunct.
[Walt]
Oh, I see.
Ah!
Dude, that's his new phone.
Which I can search,
according to the terms
of your probation.
If you've got any questions
about the legality of all this,
we can call
your probation officer right now
and go over the details.
It's nice weather, huh?
Once you slide that bag my way,
I will take it and walk away.
You will find an envelope
full of money under the bench,
as discussed.
Shit.
You seem to be in a hurry
to sell off those pills
for cheap.
Most street dealers I know
make their money just selling
a little bit at a time.
I'm not a dealer.
I'm an idiot.
And a broke vet
with too many bills.
Think that makes it okay
to peddle illegal drugs?
l was desperate, okay?
Every single job I apply for,
every single job, you know
what they tell me?
They say I don't have
the right education
or the right experience.
Apparently my military service,
well, that's just a black mark
on my résumé.
They all think that I've got
PTSD, TBI,
or some other alphabet soup
that's gonna have me
shooting up the place
or something.
So, your solution is to steal
some Zoloft pills and sell them?
I didn't -- I didn't steal them.
I found them.
Yes, like Columbus
found America.
No, seriously.
I heard about this church
on Highway 12,
and they had a stash
of free anti-depressants
for vets in need.
So I went to the church,
I dug around. I found some.
Hey, everybody assumes
that I'm this
traumatized vet anyway.
I might as well profit from it.
So, who's distributing
these pills for free?
I don't know.
I just kind of assumed
it was Hector.
Hector is dead.
No, he's not, man.
You ask anybody on the Res.
Hector lives.
You do surveillance
like this often?
Whenever Walt tells me to.
Yeah, and he sounds like a boss
that you don't want to cross.
[Ferg]
What do you mean?
Well, didn't he hunt down
and gut the guy
that murdered his wife
Charles Bronson-style?
He was under federal
investigation for it, right?
And cleared of any wrongdoing.
Right.
Hey, sorry, Ferg.
I just want to know
what I'm getting myself into.
You know what I mean?
My instructors at the academy,
they were really by-the-book.
Here, you can drive
whatever you want.
You can wear whatever you want.
Hell, it's like the sheriff
cares more about books
than physical fitness.
-You know what I mean?
-That's the third time.
-Third time what?
-Third time that truck's driven
past us.
Is it a blue pickup with
Colorado plates, right?
-Yep.
-Yeah, we've been made. [sighs]
What, you think someone's trying
to get at Lee McKinnon?
Well, if they are,
they're not gonna do it
with me sitting here
in my uniform.
Look, I'm gonna drive off,
but I'm gonna leave
one of you here
to see if that truck comes back.
Yeah, I got it.
Uh, don't take this
the wrong way, Monte,
but you look exactly like a cop.
[chuckles]
Zachary's got this one.
[Zachary]
All right.
-Got to let him out.
-Sorry.
Push it up.
[Ferg]
Zachary.
Take this.
Pretend you're getting
signatures for a petition.
All right.
[engine turns over]
[Vic] So, this Dwight Brisco guy
said he got the anti-depressants
from inside here?
He also said
Hector's still alive,
so I'm not sure
how reliable he is.
So, you're taking this search
pretty seriously.
Of course
I'm taking it seriously.
Two people have been shot.
I was talking about
the deputy search.
Well,
can't get it wrong again...
...and hire another deputy
who can't handle the strain
of the job.
I noticed you've been pretty
quiet about the whole thing.
What do you think
of the candidates?
I think I should
just leave that up to you.
I haven't been the best judge
of character lately.
[notes play]
[piano key clicks]
[Clicking]
So, we're looking for
a patriotic Robin Hood?
Yeah.
[boy imitating airplane]
Gather up all the pills
that you find.
[indistinct talking]
Bible study?
Support group for Army wives.
Quack from the V.A.
organized it.
[Rebecca]
Gareth wasn't even eating.
He believes that tapeworms
were living under his scars
and feeding off of everything
that he ate.
How is Gareth now?
Uh... better.
He came with me today,
and he's eating again.
Good.
I still -- I still
don't feel comfortable
leaving him alone with Eli.
That's okay.
But... he's better.
Good.
[Walt] You think these
had something to do
with Gareth's recovery?
What?
[Wait] I found them
in the chapel.
I'm guessing these are
the same anti-depressants
that were recently stolen
from a local warehouse.
Our husbands need those pills.
Our families need those pills.
Don't you wonder
how you got them?
Why should we?
Do you think civilians wonder
where they get their freedom?
No, they just assume it's always
gonna be there -- for free.
[Rebecca] Whoever stole
those pills is a saint.
I'd like to thank them.
You should say
your thank-yous now.
There's a good chance that
person is here in this room.
Look, I don't see any criminals
in here, Sheriff.
Just some good people in need.
[Vic] So, this looks like
it's all of them.
We'll take them back
to the station.
You, me, and Dr. Monaghan.
Is this really necessary?
Dr. Monaghan,
you've already made it clear
that you're passionate
about your work
and that you also feel
frustrated and helpless.
Providing you with clear
motivation to get the pills
to the men and women
you feel need them.
Now we find you
at the very church
where these pills
are being given away,
not to mention
that the gunshot victim
at the warehouse
where the pills were stolen
received very capable first aid.
As if trained by
a medical professional, right?
Yes, I got the implication.
Look, I understand your
suspicions, okay?
But I am not involved in this.
Although, in all honesty,
you know what? I wish I was.
Because it's been such
a roaring success so far?
No, because if I was involved,
I could make sure
that these people
are actually getting
the right medication.
You know, it takes
hours of testing
to make
a proper diagnosis, okay?
You don't just -- just,
you know,
do a couple Google searches,
kick back some anti-depressants,
and hope for the best.
You actually have to know
the person's medical history,
their family history,
-what kind of medication --
-So, you don't support
this kind
of psychiatric vigilantism?
No, I don't.
I understand it,
and I sympathize with it.
But, no, I don't support it.
I think it's dangerous
and short-sighted and reckless.
As reckless as breaking in
to Greg Collette's home?
You know, I have a colleague
who specializes
in aggressive
behavior disorders,
and I can give you his number.
Doctor, you know
where Greg lives.
Come on, Sheriff,
you seem like a smart man.
I mean, really, do I strike you
as the sort of person
who is gonna
throw her medical license away
and bust into a patient's house
guns blazing?
-I mean...
-Well, I've seen things
on this job surprise me more.
You put someone
in a bad enough corner,
they'll do just about anything
to get out of it.
[knock on door]
You're gonna want to hear this.
Excuse me.
I'll be right back.
So, guess who showed up
at Lee McKinnon's house
after he was released.
Sergeant Marc Van Zandt.
He was driving a blue pickup
truck with Colorado plates.
That Zachary identified.
McKinnon let the sergeant in
before he even had
a chance to knock.
He was inside
for just under five minutes,
and then Van Zandt left.
So, obviously, Lee McKinnon
isn't just a victim in this.
It's starting to look like
Lee McKinnon
and Sergeant Van Zandt
were in on this heist together.
Is everything okay?
Why would Lee McKinnon
and Sergeant Van Zandt
break into Greg Collette's house
and steal
Brandi's engagement ring
if Greg's a friend?
-[sighs]
-[footsteps approach]
Seems that the only thing that's
clear right now is the why.
Whoever did this did it to help.
Which brings up another why.
Why do we got to break our backs
to solve this thing
when all the person
was trying to do
is get medicine to people
who needed it?
It's not like anyone was killed.
-Not this time.
-What do you mean?
We've confiscated
all their pills.
What's gonna happen when they
hit again?
Because they will.
What's going on?
My damn engine crapped out.
Well, what do you want me
to do about it?
Well, you can start by doing
exactly what I say
when I say it.
Or you can take your chances
with that grenade.
Shit, man!
Is that thing for real?
You tell me.
-Hands on the wheel!
-Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
Yes, sir. Yes, sir.
Keep your eyes forward!
Don't look at my face!
You're gonna drive us
about a quarter mile
down this road, you understand?
-Yeah, yeah, okay.
-Let's go!
We need to hurry this up.
Take a few more cases,
and that's it, all right?
[Walt]
Stop right there.
Keep your hands
where I can see them.
Get them up.
Off the truck.
Back up.
Move to the van.
Move it!
Tu rn away.
Keep them up.
Wrist in that hook.
One each.
On the hook.
Do it!
I figured you guys
would still want these pills.
You wouldn't hit
the warehouse again,
so I've been riding
every Zoloft shipment
the last couple of days.
You need to know, Sheriff,
we never meant for anyone
to get hurt.
Is that right?
Tell that to Greg Collette.
Greg?
I thought you were Lee McKinnon.
I'm sorry, Sheriff. I --
Lee McKinnon didn't have
anything to do with this.
Why'd you go to McKinnon's house
after he got released?
We went to his house to make
sure we had our stories straight
and to thank him
for not turning us in.
Lee was supposed to be on break
at that hour.
When he came up on us,
I panicked,
then I fired,
then he fired back.
That's why you got shot
with Lee McKinnon's gun.
Yes, sir.
[Marc]
After Greg left the warehouse,
I cleaned up all his blood,
I took care of McKinnon's leg.
Gave me an opportunity
to talk to him,
explain why we
were after those pills.
He agreed not to talk.
So, the home invasion
was just a cover-up
for your gunshot wound.
No drugged-up robber.
No fight for a gun.
No stolen engagement ring.
I just thought
that if I could make sure
that the other soldiers got
what Brandi didn't,
if they got the help
that she didn't,
I'd have something to live for.
Right.
So, it was just you two
at the warehouse robbery, right?
Yes, sir. That's right.
It was just us.
Except it wasn't.
Greg just got shot.
I don't think you drove yourself
home from the warehouse
and staged that break-in
by yourself.
Marc didn't drive you.
He was busy sewing up Lee.
-So who helped you?
-I did.
Put your gun down
and let these men go.
I don't want to shoot you,
but I will.
I can set down my gun down.
I can't let these men go.
Look, just take his gun
andleave.
We agreed nobody else gets hurt.
I'm not leaving you behind.
Put your gun down.
Put it down!
And the other one.
Put it down.
Then move over there.
Move!
He hasn't seen your face.
He can't identify you,
so just leave!
Leave now!
Rebecca, what are you doing?
I'm not going anywhere
without those pills.
Gareth won't even talk about
seeing someone at the V.A.,
and I'm terrified he's gonna
end up just like Brandi.
Eli needs a father.
Eli needs his mother, too.
If you shoot me,
my deputies will find you,
arrest you, and put you away
for the rest of your life.
Now, you haven't crossed
that line yet.
You can still have a life
with your husband.
Not without those pills,
I can't!
Turn around
and get on your knees.
Get on your knees.
Now.
When I lost my wife...
...I just about gave up
on everything.
You can see how losing Brandi
has affected Greg.
Do you think Gareth will be able
to make it without you?
Shut up!
Did you ever read
"Of Mice and Men"?
There's a scene
at the end of the book.
A man named George shoots
and kills his best friend.
It's beautiful.
George kills Lennie
to save him from being lynched.
When I read the book,
I didn't realize
how any act can become
an act of love.
-[gun cocks]
-Rebecca, no!
You think if Gareth could see
your act of love right now...
he might go get the treatment
he needs?
Maybe he doesn't even need
to see it.
He just needs to hear about it.
If you set your gun down,
Rebecca,
we could call Gareth right now.
It'd mean more if he heard it
from you, I think.
[gun clicks]
[sobbing]
[Walt]
Sorry to keep you waiting.
[clears throat]
It's been a long week.
It's been a long year.
Anyway, um, clearly,
you're the two best candidates
for this job.
I'm not sure either one of you
has demonstrated
what I need to see.
ReaHy?
So, you're not gonna offer
the job to either of us?
[Walt]
No, I'm not.
Maybe I've rushed into
this process too quickly.
Maybe -- Maybe I'm holding you
to unrealistic standards.
Yeah, well, maybe you don't know
what the hell you're doing.
I don't know if you
realize this.
I was doing you a favor
by even applying to this job,
going through
this whole ridiculous process.
It's no wonder your last deputy
ran against you as sheriff.
If I wasn't so afraid
I'd end up dead like him,
I'd do the same damn thing!
It's a joke.
[door slams]
Um... before I leave,
um, can I ask you
what I can improve on?
Well, it's not so much
there's any one thing
you need to work on.
-lt's just...
-|t's the assault, isn't it?
It must have come up in your
background checks. I get it.
Last deputy didn't respond
too well when he got shot.
No. No, he didn't.
You mind talking about
what happened to you...
...four years ago?
Yeah, uh...
Um...
My brother Phil and l
were walking home one night
after a movie
when a dark sedan pulled up.
The next thing I remember,
l was waking up
in a hospital room.
The nurse told me I'd been shot
three times
and that Phil was dead.
I'm sorry.
That must have been hard.
Yeah, I went through
every stage.
Anger, guilt, denial,
back to anger again.
But then, uh, I ran into
one of my brother's
work buddies,
and he introduced me to tai chi.
And it saved me.
How so?
I like to put it like this.
I went to church a lot as a kid.
And we were always taught
to love our enemies.
Tai chi taught me
something new --
to love the enemy inside me,
as well.
So I don't look at peace
as the absence of conflict
anymore.
I see it as the acceptance
of conflict.
I finally finished your book.
Um...
Glad I did.
[Walt]
So, what would you have done
to keep George
from shooting Lennie?
I think George shot Lennie
'cause he felt it was
the only option he had left.
I'd like to get there
before things ever got that bad.
[door slams]
How about Monday?
For what?
First day on the job.
Yeah, Monday works for me.
So, was that the last test
in there?
To see which one of us
could handle adversity?
Maybe.
Thanks, Sheriff.
N The clouds move
over Pontiac skies J‘J‘
J‘J‘ Their silent thunder
matches mine J‘J‘
II I know this feeling
from long ago J‘J‘
N I wondered was it gone J‘J‘
J‘J‘ But now I know J‘J‘
M So when it hurts J‘J‘
J‘J‘ You'll know
it's the right thing J‘J‘
J‘J‘ What am [supposed to do now J‘J‘
J‘J‘ Without you J‘J‘